#A compleat practice of physick. Wherein is plainly described, the nature, causes, differences, and signs, of all diseases in the body of man. VVith the choicest cures for the same. / By John Smith, Doctor in Physick.#

##Smith, John, doctor in Physic.##
A compleat practice of physick. Wherein is plainly described, the nature, causes, differences, and signs, of all diseases in the body of man. VVith the choicest cures for the same. / By John Smith, Doctor in Physick.
Smith, John, doctor in Physic.

##General Summary##

**Links**

[TCP catalogue](http://www.ota.ox.ac.uk/tcp/)  • 
[HTML](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-HTML/free/A93/A93373.html)  • 
[EPUB](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-EPUB/free/A93/A93373.epub) • 
[Page images (Historical Texts)](https://historicaltexts.jisc.ac.uk/eebo-99867888e)

**Availability**

To the extent possible under law, the Text Creation Partnership has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this keyboarded and encoded edition of the work described above, according to the terms of the CC0 1.0 Public Domain Dedication (http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/). This waiver does not extend to any page images or other supplementary files associated with this work, which may be protected by copyright or other license restrictions. Please go to https://www.textcreationpartnership.org/ for more information about the project.

**Major revisions**

1. __2011-06__ __TCP__ *Assigned for keying and markup*
1. __2011-06__ __Apex CoVantage__ *Keyed and coded from ProQuest page images*
1. __2011-07__ __Lauren Proux__ *Sampled and proofread*
1. __2011-07__ __Lauren Proux__ *Text and markup reviewed and edited*
1. __2012-05__ __pfs__ *Batch review (QC) and XML conversion*

##Content Summary##

#####Front#####
A Compleat PRACTICE OF Phyſick.Wherein is plainly deſcribed, The Nature, Cauſes, Differences, and Si
1. The Epiſtle to the Reader.

1. Authors made uſe of in this Treatiſe.

#####Body#####

1. A Compleat Practice OF PHYSICK.
ABORTION is a ſymptom of things thruſt out.The Cauſe is the expulſive faculty, provoked; or the reteANEURISMA, Is not a humour from the running forth of the arterial blood, as Galen and Platerus &c. wAPPETITE Wanting: the Cauſe, Becauſe there is either no ſucking, or it is not perceived. 1. When nouANTHRAX, or a Carbuncle, is a Tumour that riſeth from aduſt blood that is extream hot, making an eſcAPOPLEXIE is a ſymptome whereby all the animal actions periſh.The cauſe is not, obſtruction of the vARTHRITIS is a pain or ſwelling with a pain, of the joynts from a
 ſharp watery humour, which partlyASTHMA, is the hurt of Breathing, without a Feaver, with a noiſe, and frequency of breathing, from tAPHTHAE. The cauſe is ſometime a fault in the Mouth, when humours are collected in it; or of the whoBELLY STOPT. The Cauſe: Want of choler as in Jaundies, and after purgation, the choler and excrementA BOTCH is a Tumor or inflammation of the glandulous parts in the Groins, Arm-pits, and under the FaBULIMIA is Appetite increaſed, but
 dejection of forces. A dogs appetite is alwaies with vomiting, aBLOOD-SPITTING. The cauſe is either a breaking of the veſſel, which is known by the great flux of BlBLEEDING at the Noſe, The cauſe is either the mouths of the Veins opened, or plenty of blood and theBLEEDING of Wounds. This proceeds from ſolution of continuity of the Veins and Arteries. It is more BARRENNES. For. preſcribed this that followeth.Take Saffron, long Pepper, Cardamnum, Pellatoty of SpCACHEXIA is a cold and moiſt diſtemper of the body, with a ſymptome of the colour changed, and a diſA CANCER is, a hard Tumor, ſharp, unequal, round, unmoveable, wan, ſticking deep in the Veins that ſCARUS is a deep ſleep, with loſſe of ſence and motion, the ſpirits being
 hindered; yet the breathinCATALEPSIS. The ſick remain ſtiff in the ſame faſhion they were taken; yet ſometimes they hear a litA CATARRH, is a Symptome in things put forth, whether it be taken generally for any kind of defluxioCHOLERICK Paſſion moiſt, is a continual and immoderate caſting forth of a naughty humour both upwardCHOLERICK dry Paſſion, is the caſting forth of a windy vapour, above and beneath, with Inflation of The COLICK, in general, is a pain of the Guts, violent, and wandring.The cauſe 1. Is wind, either frA COLICK, from Excrements, from wind.Signs diagnostick. There went before it a ſtopping of the BellyThe COLICK from a cauſe between the Coats.Signs diagnoſtick. A moſt ſharp pain it is, faſt as a ſtakA COMA that is ſlepy, is an action diminiſhed, the influence of the ſpirits being hindred.The cauſe COMA that is waking, is, when the ſick with his Eys ſhut, ſtriveth to ſleep and cannot, with a delirCOMBUSTION. The differences: either heat is only felt in the part, or only bladders ariſe, or an EſcCONCUSSION of the Brain, is made from an external cauſe. So Hippocrates tels us of a woman killed wiCONTUSION, with running forth of blood, is, when the blood is preſſed forth of the Veſſels by extenſCONVULION is a depraved motion of the Muſcles.The cauſe is not Emptineſſe: becauſe Hellebour will doCRISES, Though they be imperfect, the matter being not yet concocted; yet are they good. For. ſaw, wCHILD-BIRTH. In hard labour ſome have the bones of the privities ſtretched out. Paraeus will have itCHILD-BLANES are an inflamation of the Feet by the Winter cold. Preſervatives, are ſocks wet in AquaThe COUGH. The cauſe is 1. a naked diſtemper, and then there preceeded Procatactick cauſes. 2. A humDIABETE. The Cauſe is the retentive faculty or the Reins hurt either by plenty or by quantity of theDIARRHOEA, is a flux of the Belly cauſed by excrementitious humours.The cauſe is the obſtruction of DYSENTERY is an exulceration of the Inteſtins with a frequent bloody dejection, and mattery, with paDYSURIA is diminiſhing of Urine, it differs from Iſchuria in degree only: ſometimes it is with, but DRUNKENNES.Preſervatives, Bitter. Almonds are commended, five, ſix or ten before meat, as alſo PeachDANDRAFF. It proceeds from a ſalt watery blood, and alſo cholerick. Some hold it for a ſign of a ſouThe DROPSIE called Aſcites. Is a tumor of the Abdomen, Scrotum, Thighs, Feet, from a watery humour,
A DROPSY of the Womb, is either in the cavity of the Matrix, or in the Coats of the Marix, or in theA DROPSY of the Breſt is ſeldom knownz and yet it is frequent. It
 is not likely that ſo much water DROPSY of the Head, Is either within or without the Scull. It runneth out by Anaſtomoſis and diapediDISTEMPER of the Spleen hot, hath with it, thirſt, a dry Tongue, yellow colour, red Face, dejected ADISTEMPER of the Stomach. If it be cold it is cured by Generals, Topicals. Topicals muſt be laid to DEAD BODY, If it ly in the houſe or field, and it be a queſtion how it died, either by Thunder, or ſDEAFNES. The Cauſe is either the fault of the Spirits and Brain, and ſo the other ſences ſuffer alſoECSTASIS is either true, as when the mind is drawn away to contemplate heavenly things: or DemoniacaELIPHANTIASIS of the Greeks, or a Leproſy of the Arabians, is a Cancer of the whole Body, or a diſeaELEPHANTIASIS of the Arabians, is a ſwelling of the Foot, wan, and looks like an Elephants Foot.It iEMPYEMA, is a collection of Matter in the hollow of the Breſt.The Cauſe. It followeth chiefly the inEPILEPSIE either is eſſential to the Brain, or by Sympathy from the Stomach, Marrix, Worms, outward
ERYSIPELAS. The Roſe, or Holy fire, it is made, not of pure Choler; for that exulcerates, and it wouThe EYES Affected, either the Coats Adnata and Cornea are affected. as,EYES inflamed, which if it beEYES inflamed being dry, if it be without pricking, it is with hardneſſe of the Ey-lids, it is calleA HAW in the EYE is a little nail: it is a nervous membrane, commonly riſing from the inward corner,EY-LIDS Roughneſſe. It is the ruggedneſſe of the inſide of the Ey-lids with itching and redneſſe, anFASCINATION, Is a bewitching, whereby, by the ſight, prayſing, or touching, Men, Beaſts, Corne, do dA FEVER of one day, is a Feaver riſen from the heat of the vital ſpirits:
 to this belongeth SynocheA Putrid FEAVER. Cauſe of putrefaction is concoction hurt by natural things, and things not natural,A FEAVER putrid continual, is diſtinguiſhed from an intermittent: becauſe an intermittent alwaies coA FICUS cancerated. Fab. obſ. 1. c. 1. A cancerated Ficus in the right Ey. A fit Dyet being preſcribA FISSURA on the Nipples or Chaps; It proceeds from violent ſucking, and a cholerick humour. It is nA FISTULA, is a winding Ulcer, white, ſtraight, callous, from dried fleam, and oft times is without A FISTULA of the Cheſt: It is almoſt incurable. 1. Becauſe the Muſcles are in perpetual motion. 2. BA FISTULA of the Gums is cured by generals, a decoction of Agrimony with Allum, or by a Cauſtick, orWOMENS FLUX. It is diſtinguiſhed from an Ulcer, for that which floweth from an Ulcer of the Womb, isA FRACTURE. The ſigns are, that we can feel the pieces of the broken bone by the touch, we hear the FRACTURES of the Noſe, Cheekbones, Canal-bone, Breſt, Shoulders, Ribs, Back-bone, Ankle, Heel, Hand,A FRACTURE with a wound, is more hard to cure; for the bones
 muſt be reduced, and the wound muſt beA FRACTURE of the Leg with a wound, Pareus l. 14. for a wound of the Leg applyed the white of an EggA FRACTURE of the Scull with a wound of the Membranes. The ſigns are, if the Patient fell with the bFUNGI. Oft times by the hole made with the Trepan comes forth
 Sponges, namely, a Fungus red fleſh. FURY of the Womb, is a delirium, with an unmeaſurable deſire of Venery, growing from the heat of theThe FROG. It is a ſwelling under the Tongue that is common to
 children, ſeldome it hath the nature FRECKLS, Either come from heat of the Sun, namely, where the colour is changed into ſwart; It is preA FELLON, Is a ſwelling at the ends of the Fingers, with inflammation, pain, a Feaver, toſſing, fromGANGLIUM is a Tumor about the Bones of the Joynts, which are covered
 only with skin. The Cauſe is tA GANGRENE, The hot fire, as a Sphaecelus is a cold fire: It is firſt made by too much cold. 2. FromGONORRHEA comes either from the retentive Faculty hurt, from a cold and moyſt diſtemper, or from watGONORRHEA Ʋenereous, is an inflammation of the Paraſtatis, from unclean copulation, with ſharp matteGUTTA Roſacea. Sometimes it is a preternatural redneſſe without Puſtules, Bladders or Ulcers: SometiGALLING is cured with the juyce of the hearb wild Tanſey bruiſed, with Dears ſuet, Goats ſuet, a talGUMS SWOLN, is an inflammation
 of the Gums; it is cured with Generals. Topicals muſt neither be ſtrHEAD-ACH. The cauſe is either a bare diſtemper, and then there is no heavineſſe of the Head, the EysHERNIA of the Inteſtines. The cauſe is either the falling down of the Peritonaeum, or rupture, or loA HERNIA of the Groin, is a round ſwelling in the Groin, which is eaſily thruſt inward.The Cure. ForHERNIA of the Matrix. It is not found in Authors. Senn. hath but one example: Doringius in Epiſt. adA Windy HERNIA. Signs. The ſwelling of the Scrotum, without weight or heavineſs, with a ſound: it isA watery HERNIA: It often followeth the Dropſy, or rather accompanieth it. It is ſeldom bred in the A HERNIA called Varicoſa, or a Rupture of ſwollen Veins with ill blood, or Circocele, is a crooked VA HERNIA of the Navil. It oft times happeneth, when the Inteſtines and the Caule, ly down upon the NA HERNIA of the Navil that is watery.Signs. A lank ſwelling with waving up and down; being preſſed, A Windy HERNIA of the Navil is cured as Hernia before, but with difficulty.A fleſhy HERNIA of the NaA HERNIA of the Throat called Bronchocele, is a ſwelling between the ſharp Artery & the Skin, whereiHARE-LIPS are cured, 1. By excoriation of the Lips that are parted
 and gape 2. By future of them beHAIRS fall off, either from the whole Head equally, or from ſome one or other part, and it is calledHAIRS are made black by the decoction of aſtringent things, by Internals purging fleam. By Topicals,HICKOP. The Cauſe is the rending of the upper orifice, which proceedeth from humours, vapours riſingYELLOW JAUNDIES, is a ſpreading of the Gall.If it come from the ſtraightneſs of the Paſſages, or froBLACK JAUNDIES. It is commonly thought to come from the Spleen, when the melancholick humor is not aThe ILIACK Paſſion, is the motion of the Guts turned, wherein the Chylus is not rightly diſtributed,IMAGINATION, of it ſelf neither alters nor moveth, becauſe it is an apprehending power, and the actiRegiment of INFANTS. The Navil ſtring being cut off, if the Infant be plethorick, let the blood run INFANTS Feavers. They proceed either from corrupt Milk, or breeding of Teeth, or Worms. The Nurſe orINFLAMMATION is Phlegmone, a ſwelling with heat, redneſſe,
 ſtretching out from abundance, with reſiINFLAMMATION of the Brain, or Frenſy, comes from Inflammation of the Brain, or of the Membranes, or INFLAMMATION of the Wind-Pipe. Gorgareon is a pendulous kernel, which if it be ſwollen below and ſmaINFLAMMATION of the Jaws, is
 the firſt kind of Quinſey, when the inward compaſſe of the Jaws is infINFLAMMATION of the Lungs; The Cauſe of this diſeaſe is alſo cholerick blood; for though it be ſaid INFLAMMATION of the Pleura, not alwaies, but only when the upper
 part is affected, hath InflammatioINFLAMMATION of the Liver is known by a heavy pain, and ſomtimes pricking, by reaſon of the LigamentINFLAMMATION of the Spleen. There is pain, ſwelling, heavineſs on the left ſide: which yet oft timesINFLAMMATION of the Breaſts. It is cured by opening a Vein, Purgatives and Alteratives. Let the TopiINFLAMMATION of the Stomach. Signs. There is a ſenſe of extending the Tumor often appeareth outwardlINFLAMMATION of the Reins. Signs. Heat, great pain ſpreading to the Bladder, the Teſticles and the bINFLAMMATION of the Meſentery. It is not ſeldom, yet is it ſeldom known. Oft times it hath a SemiterINFLAMMATION of the Teſticles. This is cured the wonted way. Let all Topicals be ſo applyed that theINFLATION of the Stomach.
 It commeth from wind bred from cauſes related in the Colick: There is a rITCHING of the Ey-lids, is cured by Generals, Coolers, Moiſtners. Topicals, firſt emollient, as warmKINGS-EVIL, is a Scirrhous Tumor of the Kernels, ſhut in a bag. Oft times it poſſeſſeth all the KernLETHARGY, Is an invincible neceſſity of ſleeping, and the ſleep is heavy, with a delirium, and hurt-LIENTERIE, is when the meat is ſent forth raw not concocted. It proceeds either from the retentive FLUXATION. The cauſe is either internal, as the humours, or external as a fal, or heriditary as when LUXATION of the Spondils inwardly, is death. Yet Fabr. teacheth a way to cure it, but not a ſafe oneThe night MARE, is the hurt of breathing and of animal actions, with an Imagination of weight.The CaMILK. The more whey it hath, the more it cleanſeth; the more Cheeſe, namely when the whey is evaporaMILK wanting. If it be for want of blood, it is cured by meats of good juyce, by Medicaments that brMILK too much, is taken away by Revulſives, Diet, moderate Repellers, not laid to the Breſts, but abMILK cloddering, it is made by a fermenting humour; but whether this be made in the Breſts Senn. is MADNES. The cauſe is the heat of the animal and vital ſpirits, whereby they very eaſily endure cold,MARASMUS, one is burning or a Hectick Maraſmodes, another is cold and dry. It is called a Hectick ofMELANCHOLY, is the vexation of the Mind, faſtned upon one thought, without a Feaver or Fury, proceedMEMORY. It is weakned by a cold moiſt diſtemper. It is cured as flegmatick Head-ach, by alteratives,MEASLES. They have alwaies a putrid Feaver with them, ſometimes Continual, ſometimes Intermitting.ThOBSTRUCTION of the Liver, is made when the Veins and Arteries,
 are ſtopped in the ſubſtance of the OBSTRUCTION of the Paſſage of hearing. If it be from a worm ſlipt in, that muſt be, if it can be, drOBSTRUCTION of the Throat by a hard thing it muſt be taken out with Pullers, if the thing can beſeenOEDEMA, is either Phlegmonodes, Scirrhodes or Eryſipelatodes.The Signs are a whitiſh colour, a ſoft OSSACRUM excoriated, is cured. Take Sheeps ſuet, Cream of one night, of each one dram; white chalk, PAIN is the action hurt, or the ſenſitive Faculty, a ſad ſenſation.The Cauſe. It is no diſtemper, asPAIN of the Loins; In Feavers it proceeds from a diſeaſed cauſe, ſent into the large Veins of the LoPILES of the Fundament, are of two ſorts that are outwardly, and but one internal from the Vena portPILES of the Matrix. As in the Fundament, ſo in the neck of the Womb Piles are found: if the Veins iFRENCH-POX, is an occult
 diſeaſe of the Liver and the other parts: whether it be cold or hot, with PIMPLS Red. They proceed from a vapour of burnt blood; The beſt Remedy is, water of Pilewort, diſtilPISSING Involuntary, proceeds from the reſolving of the Bladder and the ſphincter Muſcle, ſtopping oPALPITATION of the Heart; comes firſt from ſomething troubling the Heart, from vapour, humours, wateThe PAPS. If they ly hid, they are called forth according to Amatus, with a glaſſe Vial, that hath aThe PALSEY is made when the Nerves are either cooled or moiſtned by fleam, choler; for all Choler isThe PESTILENCE. The Cauſe is divine, Hipp. Which Eraſtus ep. 275. affirms to be a hidden quality of PTHYSICK. It either followeth the Pleuriſy, or it proceeds from a ſharp Diſtillation, or the breakinPRIAPISM, is a ſtretching of the Yard without luſt, and it is not aſſwaged by Venery. It is cured asA PUSH, A Fellon, differs from Phlegmone, by the ſmallneſs, blood, thickneſs, it ſuppurateth of it ſPOYSON, muſt alwaies be brought out the ſame way it went into the Body. Opening a Vein, purging, havRENUNCIATIO, is called a great wound, 1. For the greatneſs of diſſolved unity. 2. For the principallRINGING in the Ears. The cauſe is ſome matter ſticking in the Ear that moveth the Faculty. Oft timesSTONE of the Reins.The cauſe is Tartar, a andy and ſtony conſtitution of the Reins. Fernelius faith,STONE of the Bladder. When the Stone is fallen into the Bladder, the pain abates. Therefore then, ifThe SHINGLES, riſe from yellow pure thin Choler; it eateth becauſe the choler is ſharp, it cauſeth ſSHIVERING. It differs in degree from vehement cold. The Subject is the Muſcle. The Cauſe, the expulſSPOTS natural, according to Senn. are bred from imagination of the Mother. Par. l. 23. they are madeSPITTING often, is of that ſpittle which is bred in the firſt concoction, and in the third, in the BSAHAFATI muſt not be cured in an Infant, for it preſerveth it from the Epilepſie; yet if we muſt do The SCAB. A certain woman did happily cure all Scabs with juyce of Creſces, and Gooſe greaſe.SCIRRHUS is a Tumor which is made of melancholy or natural fleam dried by degrees in the part, and iA SCIRRHUS of the Liver followeth
 obſtructions frequently. It is ſeldom known, there is an ill habiSCIRRHUS of the Spleen, is known by the touch, there is difficulty of breathing, a wan colour, weighThe SCURVEY, Which in the year 1486▪ invaded Germany, as Spangenb. ſaith, is an ill habit of the natSPHACELUS of the bones is made either from the contagion of the Aire, or matter, or moiſt medicamentSNEESING overmuch is taken away by Lenitives, Preparatives, Evacuating, &c. by ſmell of cold things,STRANGURY, is wherein the water is made by drops with pain. Dyſuria, is otherwiſe taken for only dimSTRANGLING of the Womb. The cauſe is a malignant vapour ſent from the Seed, menſtrual blood, and othSUPPURATION, is not to be opened before it be ripe; for it will turn to a Fiſtula in a part that wanSTITCHING. 1. A little Pipe with a little hole is put to receive the point of the Needle, to hold thSWOONING. Is a ſudden failing of the Forces by reaſon of the vitall ſpirits
 affluence denied: or beTEETH, rotten and black are made ſo by over-hot, cold, ſweet, ſowre things, or paintings of Mercury.TEETH are pulled out with Iron, either by reaſon of extream pain, or becauſe they are rotten, and maTEETH aſtoniſhed. The cauſe is a ſowre taſt.The Cure. Purſlane chewed, the juyce of it is good; bittTEETH Pain. It proceeds from a hot or cold cauſe, or Worms in the Teeth, that watery humour flows thTEETH looſe. It either comes from too much moiſture, or the Pox, or anointing with Quick-ſilver, or TOOTHING of Children, is about the ſeventh Moneth.The Cure. The Nurſe muſt be cured, and if it be feTETTERS of the Greeks, is nothing but the Leproſy. Gelſus alſo cals the Leproſy, Tetters; but with tFalling out of the TUEL. It comes from too much ſtraining in Child-bed, from Acrimony, as in a DyſenTONGUE great, or a Tumour: ſometime, it is without pain, from the plenty of profitable nouriſhment fTERMS of women flowing. It is made the ſame way as bleeding at the noſe, &c. The ſigns are the ſame.TERMS ſtopt. It proceeds either from the fault or want of blood, or from ſtraightneſs of the PaſſageTERMS dropping. This proceeds either from thickneſs and ſharpneſs of blood, ſtraightneſs of the PaſſTENESMUS. The next cauſe is ſomething provoking the expulſive Faculty, the remote cauſe, is ſtone ofThe TREPAN hath place only in three caſes. 1. When the Bone preſſeth the hard Membrane. 2. When it pTREMBLING. The cauſe is a preternatural moving Faculty burdened by the fault of the animal ſpirits, VEINS ſwollen with melancnolick blood, are cured by Chirurgery; for above and beneath the Vein it isVERTIGO is, when all things ſeem to turn round. Scotoma is when over and above the ſight is darkned.VOMITING too much, is cured by Revulſives, Clyſters, Oyls, Frictions, and principally by heating theAn ULCER is the ſolution of continuity, from ſomething that corrodeth, with the taking away of ſome An ULCER of the Eye, is known by ſight, and if it be in the Cornea, there preceedeth a white Puſh, aAn ULCER of the weeping fleſh, namely an Aegylops. For. becauſe of the danger doth not willingly undAn ULCER of the Ear. Signs are, pain, burning, great pricking in the Ear, matter. This ſometimes is An ULCER of the Noſtrils. If it be new, and ſtink not, it is eaſily cured; if old and ſtinking, hardAn ULCER of the Stomach, is cured by Generals, as opening a Vein, Lenitives. Vomit is mortal. With eAn ULCER of the Bladder, comes alſo by Cantharides. Yet Senn. though he had applyed them to all partULCER of the Reins. The urine is made without impediment, matter is mixed with the urine, it ſtinketWEARINESS. One kind is, not natural or drying, which followeth labour; another, natural: this is eitWHEALES angry, or Pimples of ſweat riſing in the Neck, Breſt, Arms, &c. they proceed from cholerick WHEALS riſing in the night, that vex us in the night, and are of divers colours. It is never greaterWORMS. A Lotion of bitter things kills Lice: a ſhirt ſtayned with Saffron, and worn a while; wonderfWORMS are either round, or the Bots, or broad; theſe either Gourdfaſhion, or leſſe like to a Gourd. WARTS. A Nail, a ſwelling of the Fundament, namely, when a wrinkle of the skin groweth hard. Thymus,A WOUND, is unity diſſolved in a ſoft, by ſome cutting thing, wherein nothing is corroded by matter.A WOUND of the Nerves. The Signs are pain, hurt action, matter, pricking is moſt dangerous; for the A WOUND of the Ligaments & the Joynts. The Cure, is the ſame as for the Nerves, only the Joynts requA WOUND made by bullets, is not venemous, nor alwaies bruiſed. It is ill ſcorched with oyl of EldersA WOUND of the Eye. Firſt lay on a Repulſive, all things warm, to the Temples. Narcoticks are, LungsA WOUND of the Tongue endureth no ſtitching; but make Lohocks, and give ſyrup of dry Roſes, Honey ofA WOUND of the Ear, will not endure heavy oyly Cataplaſms, but dry glutinatives: If ſuture muſt be mA WOUND of the Thorax; If it hath penetrated into the Cavity, the breath will come forth at the wounA WOUND of the Lungs. Signs, beſides thoſe before, is a caſting forth of frothy blood at the mouth, 
**Types of content**

  * Oh, Mr. Jourdain, there is **prose** in there!

There are 54 **omitted** fragments! 
 @__reason__ (54) : illegible (50), duplicate (4)  •  @__resp__ (50) : #UOM (50)  •  @__extent__ (54) : 1 letter (44), 2 letters (4), 1 word (2), 1 page (4)

**Character listing**


|Text|string(s)|codepoint(s)|
|---|---|---|
|Latin-1 Supplement|î|238|
|Latin Extended-A|ſ|383|
|Latin Extended-B|Ʋ|434|
|Combining             Diacritical Marks|̄|772|
|General Punctuation|•—|8226 8212|
|Geometric Shapes|▪◊|9642 9674|
|CJKSymbolsandPunctuation|〈〉|12296 12297|

##Tag Usage Summary##

###Header Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__author__|2||
|2.|__availability__|1||
|3.|__biblFull__|1||
|4.|__change__|5||
|5.|__date__|8| @__when__ (1) : 2012-10 (1)|
|6.|__edition__|1||
|7.|__editionStmt__|1||
|8.|__editorialDecl__|1||
|9.|__encodingDesc__|1||
|10.|__extent__|2||
|11.|__fileDesc__|1||
|12.|__idno__|7| @__type__ (7) : DLPS (1), STC (3), EEBO-CITATION (1), PROQUEST (1), VID (1)|
|13.|__keywords__|1| @__scheme__ (1) : http://authorities.loc.gov/ (1)|
|14.|__label__|5||
|15.|__langUsage__|1||
|16.|__language__|1| @__ident__ (1) : eng (1)|
|17.|__listPrefixDef__|1||
|18.|__note__|5||
|19.|__notesStmt__|2||
|20.|__p__|11||
|21.|__prefixDef__|2| @__ident__ (2) : tcp (1), char (1)  •  @__matchPattern__ (2) : ([0-9\-]+):([0-9IVX]+) (1), (.+) (1)  •  @__replacementPattern__ (2) : http://eebo.chadwyck.com/downloadtiff?vid=$1&page=$2 (1), https://raw.githubusercontent.com/textcreationpartnership/Texts/master/tcpchars.xml#$1 (1)|
|22.|__profileDesc__|1||
|23.|__projectDesc__|1||
|24.|__pubPlace__|2||
|25.|__publicationStmt__|2||
|26.|__publisher__|2||
|27.|__ref__|1| @__target__ (1) : http://www.textcreationpartnership.org/docs/. (1)|
|28.|__revisionDesc__|1||
|29.|__seriesStmt__|1||
|30.|__sourceDesc__|1||
|31.|__term__|1||
|32.|__textClass__|1||
|33.|__title__|3||
|34.|__titleStmt__|2||


###Text Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__body__|1||
|2.|__closer__|2||
|3.|__date__|1||
|4.|__desc__|54||
|5.|__div__|223| @__type__ (223) : title_page (1), to_the_reader (1), index (1), text (1), part (219)|
|6.|__front__|1||
|7.|__g__|2245| @__ref__ (2245) : char:EOLhyphen (2199), char:punc (34), char:cmbAbbrStroke (4), char:V (7), char:EOLunhyphen (1)|
|8.|__gap__|54| @__reason__ (54) : illegible (50), duplicate (4)  •  @__resp__ (50) : #UOM (50)  •  @__extent__ (54) : 1 letter (44), 2 letters (4), 1 word (2), 1 page (4)|
|9.|__head__|19||
|10.|__hi__|1918| @__rend__ (2) : sup (2)|
|11.|__item__|43||
|12.|__list__|16||
|13.|__opener__|1||
|14.|__p__|905| @__n__ (20) : 1 (6), 2 (6), 3 (6), 4 (2)|
|15.|__pb__|385| @__facs__ (385) : tcp:170176:1 (1), tcp:170176:2 (2), tcp:170176:3 (2), tcp:170176:4 (2), tcp:170176:5 (2), tcp:170176:6 (2), tcp:170176:7 (2), tcp:170176:8 (2), tcp:170176:9 (2), tcp:170176:10 (2), tcp:170176:11 (2), tcp:170176:12 (2), tcp:170176:13 (2), tcp:170176:14 (2), tcp:170176:15 (2), tcp:170176:16 (2), tcp:170176:17 (2), tcp:170176:18 (2), tcp:170176:19 (2), tcp:170176:20 (2), tcp:170176:21 (2), tcp:170176:22 (2), tcp:170176:23 (2), tcp:170176:24 (2), tcp:170176:25 (2), tcp:170176:26 (2), tcp:170176:27 (2), tcp:170176:28 (2), tcp:170176:29 (2), tcp:170176:30 (2), tcp:170176:31 (2), tcp:170176:32 (2), tcp:170176:33 (2), tcp:170176:34 (2), tcp:170176:35 (2), tcp:170176:36 (2), tcp:170176:37 (2), tcp:170176:38 (2), tcp:170176:39 (2), tcp:170176:40 (2), tcp:170176:41 (2), tcp:170176:42 (2), tcp:170176:43 (2), tcp:170176:44 (2), tcp:170176:45 (2), tcp:170176:46 (2), tcp:170176:47 (2), tcp:170176:48 (2), tcp:170176:49 (2), tcp:170176:50 (2), tcp:170176:51 (2), tcp:170176:52 (2), tcp:170176:53 (2), tcp:170176:54 (2), tcp:170176:55 (2), tcp:170176:56 (2), tcp:170176:57 (2), tcp:170176:58 (2), tcp:170176:59 (2), tcp:170176:60 (2), tcp:170176:61 (2), tcp:170176:62 (2), tcp:170176:63 (2), tcp:170176:64 (2), tcp:170176:65 (2), tcp:170176:66 (2), tcp:170176:67 (2), tcp:170176:68 (2), tcp:170176:69 (2), tcp:170176:70 (2), tcp:170176:71 (2), tcp:170176:72 (2), tcp:170176:73 (2), tcp:170176:74 (2), tcp:170176:75 (2), tcp:170176:76 (2), tcp:170176:77 (2), tcp:170176:78 (2), tcp:170176:79 (2), tcp:170176:80 (2), tcp:170176:81 (2), tcp:170176:82 (2), tcp:170176:83 (2), tcp:170176:84 (2), tcp:170176:85 (2), tcp:170176:86 (2), tcp:170176:87 (2), tcp:170176:88 (2), tcp:170176:89 (2), tcp:170176:90 (2), tcp:170176:91 (2), tcp:170176:92 (2), tcp:170176:93 (2), tcp:170176:94 (2), tcp:170176:95 (2), tcp:170176:96 (2), tcp:170176:97 (2), tcp:170176:98 (2), tcp:170176:99 (2), tcp:170176:100 (2), tcp:170176:101 (2), tcp:170176:102 (2), tcp:170176:103 (2), tcp:170176:104 (2), tcp:170176:105 (2), tcp:170176:106 (2), tcp:170176:107 (2), tcp:170176:108 (2), tcp:170176:109 (2), tcp:170176:110 (2), tcp:170176:111 (2), tcp:170176:112 (2), tcp:170176:113 (2), tcp:170176:114 (2), tcp:170176:115 (2), tcp:170176:116 (2), tcp:170176:117 (2), tcp:170176:118 (2), tcp:170176:119 (2), tcp:170176:120 (2), tcp:170176:121 (2), tcp:170176:122 (2), tcp:170176:123 (2), tcp:170176:124 (2), tcp:170176:125 (2), tcp:170176:126 (2), tcp:170176:127 (2), tcp:170176:128 (2), tcp:170176:129 (2), tcp:170176:130 (2), tcp:170176:131 (2), tcp:170176:132 (2), tcp:170176:133 (2), tcp:170176:134 (2), tcp:170176:135 (2), tcp:170176:136 (2), tcp:170176:137 (2), tcp:170176:138 (2), tcp:170176:139 (2), tcp:170176:140 (2), tcp:170176:141 (2), tcp:170176:142 (2), tcp:170176:143 (2), tcp:170176:144 (2), tcp:170176:145 (2), tcp:170176:146 (2), tcp:170176:147 (2), tcp:170176:148 (2), tcp:170176:149 (2), tcp:170176:150 (2), tcp:170176:151 (2), tcp:170176:152 (2), tcp:170176:153 (2), tcp:170176:154 (2), tcp:170176:155 (2), tcp:170176:156 (2), tcp:170176:157 (2), tcp:170176:158 (2), tcp:170176:159 (2), tcp:170176:160 (2), tcp:170176:161 (2), tcp:170176:162 (2), tcp:170176:163 (2), tcp:170176:164 (2), tcp:170176:165 (2), tcp:170176:166 (2), tcp:170176:167 (2), tcp:170176:168 (2), tcp:170176:169 (2), tcp:170176:170 (2), tcp:170176:171 (2), tcp:170176:172 (2), tcp:170176:173 (2), tcp:170176:174 (2), tcp:170176:175 (2), tcp:170176:176 (2), tcp:170176:177 (2), tcp:170176:178 (2), tcp:170176:179 (2), tcp:170176:180 (2), tcp:170176:181 (2), tcp:170176:182 (2), tcp:170176:183 (2), tcp:170176:184 (2), tcp:170176:185 (2), tcp:170176:186 (2), tcp:170176:187 (2), tcp:170176:188 (2), tcp:170176:189 (2), tcp:170176:190 (2), tcp:170176:191 (2), tcp:170176:192 (2), tcp:170176:193 (2)  •  @__rendition__ (1) : simple:additions (1)  •  @__n__ (373) : 1 (1), 2 (1), 3 (1), 4 (1), 5 (1), 6 (1), 7 (1), 8 (1), 9 (1), 10 (1), 11 (1), 12 (1), 13 (1), 14 (1), 15 (1), 16 (1), 17 (1), 18 (1), 19 (1), 20 (1), 21 (1), 22 (1), 23 (1), 24 (1), 25 (1), 26 (1), 27 (1), 28 (1), 29 (1), 30 (1), 31 (1), 32 (1), 33 (1), 34 (1), 35 (1), 36 (1), 37 (1), 38 (1), 39 (1), 40 (1), 41 (1), 42 (1), 43 (1), 44 (1), 45 (1), 46 (1), 47 (1), 48 (1), 49 (1), 50 (1), 51 (1), 52 (1), 53 (1), 54 (1), 55 (1), 56 (1), 57 (1), 58 (1), 59 (1), 60 (1), 61 (1), 62 (1), 63 (1), 64 (1), 65 (1), 66 (1), 67 (1), 68 (1), 69 (1), 71 (1), 70 (1), 72 (1), 73 (1), 74 (1), 75 (1), 76 (1), 77 (1), 78 (1), 79 (1), 80 (1), 81 (1), 82 (1), 83 (1), 84 (1), 85 (1), 86 (1), 87 (1), 88 (1), 89 (1), 90 (1), 91 (1), 92 (1), 93 (1), 94 (1), 95 (1), 96 (1), 97 (1), 98 (1), 99 (1), 100 (1), 101 (1), 102 (1), 103 (1), 104 (1), 105 (1), 106 (1), 107 (1), 108 (1), 109 (1), 110 (1), 111 (1), 112 (1), 113 (1), 114 (1), 115 (1), 116 (1), 117 (1), 118 (1), 119 (1), 120 (1), 121 (1), 122 (1), 123 (1), 124 (1), 125 (1), 126 (1), 127 (1), 128 (1), 129 (1), 130 (1), 131 (1), 132 (1), 133 (1), 134 (1), 135 (1), 136 (1), 137 (1), 138 (1), 139 (1), 140 (1), 141 (1), 142 (1), 143 (1), 144 (1), 145 (1), 146 (1), 147 (1), 148 (1), 149 (1), 150 (1), 151 (1), 152 (1), 153 (1), 154 (1), 155 (1), 156 (1), 157 (1), 158 (1), 159 (1), 160 (1), 161 (1), 162 (1), 163 (1), 164 (1), 165 (1), 166 (1), 167 (1), 168 (1), 169 (1), 170 (1), 171 (1), 172 (1), 173 (1), 174 (1), 175 (1), 176 (1), 177 (1), 178 (1), 179 (1), 180 (1), 181 (1), 182 (1), 183 (1), 184 (1), 185 (1), 186 (1), 187 (1), 188 (1), 189 (1), 190 (1), 191 (1), 192 (1), 193 (1), 194 (1), 195 (1), 196 (1), 197 (1), 198 (1), 199 (1), 200 (2), 201 (2), 202 (1), 203 (1), 204 (1), 205 (1), 206 (1), 207 (1), 208 (1), 209 (1), 210 (1), 211 (1), 212 (1), 213 (1), 214 (1), 215 (1), 216 (1), 217 (1), 218 (1), 219 (1), 220 (1), 221 (1), 222 (1), 223 (1), 224 (1), 225 (1), 226 (1), 227 (1), 228 (1), 229 (1), 230 (1), 231 (1), 232 (1), 233 (1), 234 (1), 235 (1), 236 (1), 237 (1), 238 (1), 239 (1), 240 (1), 241 (1), 242 (1), 243 (1), 244 (1), 245 (1), 246 (1), 247 (1), 248 (1), 249 (1), 250 (1), 251 (1), 252 (1), 253 (1), 254 (1), 255 (1), 256 (1), 257 (1), 258 (1), 259 (1), 260 (1), 261 (1), 262 (1), 263 (1), 264 (1), 265 (1), 266 (1), 267 (1), 268 (1), 269 (1), 270 (1), 271 (1), 272 (1), 273 (1), 274 (1), 275 (1), 276 (1), 277 (1), 278 (2), 279 (2), 280 (1), 281 (1), 282 (1), 283 (1), 284 (1), 285 (1), 286 (1), 287 (1), 288 (1), 289 (1), 290 (1), 291 (1), 292 (1), 293 (1), 294 (1), 295 (1), 296 (1), 297 (1), 298 (1), 299 (1), 300 (1), 301 (1), 302 (1), 303 (1), 304 (1), 305 (1), 306 (1), 307 (1), 308 (1), 309 (1), 310 (1), 311 (1), 312 (1), 313 (1), 314 (1), 315 (1), 316 (1), 317 (1), 318 (1), 319 (1), 320 (1), 321 (1), 322 (1), 323 (1), 324 (1), 325 (1), 326 (1), 327 (1), 328 (1), 329 (1), 330 (1), 331 (1), 332 (1), 333 (1), 334 (1), 335 (1), 336 (1), 337 (1), 338 (1), 339 (1), 340 (1), 341 (1), 342 (1), 343 (1), 344 (1), 345 (1), 346 (1), 347 (1), 348 (1), 349 (1), 350 (1), 351 (1), 352 (1), 353 (1), 354 (1), 355 (1), 356 (1), 357 (1), 358 (1), 359 (1), 360 (1), 361 (1), 362 (1), 363 (1), 364 (1), 365 (1), 366 (1), 367 (1), 368 (1), 369 (1)|
|16.|__salute__|1||
|17.|__signed__|2||
|18.|__trailer__|1||
